Title: Cloud-init bi-weekly status
Date: 2020-05-19 16:18:00 UTC
Category: status-meeting-minutes
Slug: status-2020-05-19

Meeting information
----------------
 * \#cloud-init: cloud-init status meeting, 19 May at 16:18 &mdash; 18:24 UTC
 * Full logs at [[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/cloud-init/2020/cloud-init.2020-05-19-16.18.log.html](http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/cloud-init/2020/cloud-init.2020-05-19-16.18.log.html)]]



Meeting summary
----------------

 **LINK**: [https://cloud-init.github.io/status-2020-05-05.html\#status-2020-05-05](https://cloud-init.github.io/status-2020-05-05.html\#status-2020-05-05) 
### \#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)
The discussion about "\#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)" started at 16:20.


### \#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 2 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)
The discussion about "\#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 2 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)" started at 16:20.


### Previous Actions
The discussion about "Previous Actions" started at 16:21.


### Recent Changes
The discussion about "Recent Changes" started at 16:22.


### In-progress Development
The discussion about "In-progress Development" started at 16:27.


### Community Charter
The discussion about "Community Charter" started at 16:39.

  *  **LINK**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/)?field.tag=bitezise 

### Office Hours (next ~30 mins)
The discussion about "Office Hours (next ~30 mins)" started at 16:44.

  *  **LINK**: [https://pastebin.com/TG4E8Dft](https://pastebin.com/TG4E8Dft) 19.4-33 (latest 18.04 image on Azure)



Vote results
----------------




Done items
----------------

 * (none)



People present (lines said)
----------------

 * blackboxsw (52)
 * AnhVoMSFT (8)
 * meetingology (4)
 * meena (3)
 * Odd_Bloke (2)
 * smoser (0)
 * rharper (0)



Full Log
----------------


 16:18 `<blackboxsw>` \#startmeeting cloud-init status meeting

 16:18 `<meetingology>` Meeting started Tue May 19 16:18:05 2020 UTC.  The chair is blackboxsw. Information about MeetBot at [http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.](http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.)

 16:18 `<meetingology>` 

 16:18 `<meetingology>` Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:18 `<blackboxsw>` \#chair Odd_Bloke smoser rharper

 16:18 `<meetingology>` Current chairs: Odd_Bloke blackboxsw rharper smoser

 16:18 `<blackboxsw>` hello cloud-init, welcome to another round cloud-init status updates

 16:19 `<blackboxsw>` our IRC channel topic carries the next planned status meeting for those that wish to participate. All are welcome to interject or drive converstation topics here

 16:19 `<blackboxsw>` Previous meeting notes are here

 16:19 `<blackboxsw>` \#link [https://cloud-init.github.io/status-2020-05-05.html\#status-2020-05-05](https://cloud-init.github.io/status-2020-05-05.html\#status-2020-05-05)

 16:19 `<blackboxsw>` and next status meeting should be in 2 weeks time.

 16:20 `<blackboxsw>` looks like June 2. I'll set the topic of this irc channel to so that dropins can see a reminder for when that meeting is held

 16:20 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic \#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)

 16:20 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic \#cloud-init pull-requests [https://git.io/JeVed](https://git.io/JeVed) | Meeting minutes: [https://goo.gl/mrHdaj](https://goo.gl/mrHdaj) | Next status meeting June 2 16:15 UTC | 20.1 (Feb 18) | 20.2 (Apr 28) | [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+filebug)

 16:20 `<blackboxsw>` let's try that instead

 16:21 `<blackboxsw>` The topics we generally cover in this meeting are the following: Previous Actions, Recent Changes, In-progress Development, Community Charter and Office Hours (~30 mins).

 16:21 `<blackboxsw>` I'll jump through each topic, as always interjections, questions or other topics welcome

 16:21 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic Previous Actions

 16:22 `<blackboxsw>` Nothing brought up as an action in the last meeting so we'll jump to the next topic

 16:22 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic Recent Changes

 16:24 `<blackboxsw>` The following changes have landed in master; found via git log --since 05-05-2020 [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/d2qR8pTZNY/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/d2qR8pTZNY/)

 16:26 `<blackboxsw>` there are a number of commits landed related to dropping additional py2 support from various paths as well as improving pytest fixtures   (thx OddBloke)  and some json schema definitions added to cc_snap and cc_apt_configure thanks lucasmoura

 16:27 `<blackboxsw>` and an additional bit of work from meena to make libc discovery platform independent

 16:27 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic In-progress Development

 16:30 `<blackboxsw>` Current themes of work for upstream include: continuing to refine a spec on cloud-init daemon mode and hot-plug support, purging python2-isms, improving pytest automation.

 16:33 `<blackboxsw>` falcojr: also has a new approach for feature flag definitions/behavior in cloud-init  in [https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/367](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/367)  This should give us the ability to better codify upstream unconfiguraable cloud-init behavior which may differ on previous releases.

 16:34 `<blackboxsw>` falcojr: Odd_Bloke & smoser thanks for good design discussion there. anyone interested feel free to weigh in.

 16:36 `<blackboxsw>` Also in-progress work is a cloud-init StableReleaseUpdate planned to publish cloud-init version 20.2 to xenial, bionic, eoan and focal.

 16:37 `<blackboxsw>` This will publish latest cloud-init (after verification) to old stable releases

 16:38 `<blackboxsw>` the first step before SRU is to upload latest cloud-init to Ubuntu Groovy(20.10). Once this upload is complete, we'll start the SRU process to publish to Xenial, Bionic, Eoan and Focal

 16:39 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic Community Charter

 16:40 `<blackboxsw>` As discussed at the last cloud-init summit we targeted a couple of streams of work that are easy to work in parallel, making them prime candidates for community involvement.

 16:41 `<blackboxsw>` Those streams/themes are: updating and correcting datasource documentation at [https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/datasources.html](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/datasources.html)

 16:41 `<blackboxsw>` and    adding jsonschema definitions to any cloudinit.config.cc_* modules

 16:41 `<blackboxsw>` any of these bugs are categorized as 'bitesize' and can be searched at the following link

 16:42 `<blackboxsw>` \#link [https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/)?field.tag=bitezise

 16:43 `<blackboxsw>` a few of us have grabbed schema definitions for a few of the cloud config modules. I think we are up to 11 modules covered (of 50). Thanks all for the progress there. We have it on our roadmap to flesh out as much as we can

 16:44 `<blackboxsw>` \#topic Office Hours (next ~30 mins)

 16:45 `<blackboxsw>` During this part of the meeting upstream devs should have eyes on the channel for any discussion related to feature, bug or review requests.

 16:45 `<blackboxsw>` In the absence of active discussions, the active review queue will be be groomed.

 16:46 `<blackboxsw>` for me, I've got to read through  [https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/367](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/367)  in depth to see if I have any use-cases  to add there for feature management

 17:21 `<blackboxsw>` so, yeah sorry for the noise Odd_Bloke and falcojr in standup about whether this 'feature' is runtime configurable on/off. It doesn't even make sense for this  \#include  case. Also I think the merits of falcojr's suggestion to rely on some unique environment variable to determine whether a feature is on or off can and should be encoded in cloud-init proper, instead of relying on patching when releasing to

 17:21 `<blackboxsw>` ubuntu/xenial.

 17:22 `<blackboxsw>` when we add a new 'feature' to cloud-init upstream. I believe we know what our expectations are for older stable releases at that time. We generally could encode those expectations (at least for ubuntu series which we maintain) that a feature should behave a certain way when we end up releasing to ubuntu/xenial.  Avoiding the RELEASE_BLOCKER comment as a reminder for us to manually patch a release wouldn't be

 17:22 `<blackboxsw>` necessary in these cases.

 17:26 `<AnhVoMSFT>` q question: when I specify a custom data to format/partition the datadisk, it seems like the ephemeral resource disk isn't getting formatted to ext4 anymore. Is this by-design that when the customer specifies disk_setup and fs_setup for additional datadisk they need to also include the fs_setup for ephemeral0 (it seems odd because disk_setup got "merged" properly. I could see the ephemeral0

 17:26 `<AnhVoMSFT>` got partitioned. Yet fs_setup isn't).

 17:27 `<AnhVoMSFT>` I am not sure if this is an appropriate topic for Office Hours. I can wait :-)

 17:30 `<blackboxsw>` AnhVoMSFT: thx for the question. so, what version of cloud-init and what's the user-data for partitioning that is isn't working as expected?

 17:31 `<AnhVoMSFT>` [https://pastebin.com/TG4E8Dft](https://pastebin.com/TG4E8Dft) 19.4-33 (latest 18.04 image on Azure)

 17:33 `<AnhVoMSFT>` (paste.ubuntu has been giving me problems today - not sure if it's only me)

 17:49 `<meena>` blackboxsw: no mention of my work on the net refactoring or did i miss that

 17:53 `<blackboxsw>` meena: sorry, right that is a large undertaking that you've raised via your PR [https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/363](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/pull/363)

 17:55 `<meena>` yeah, it's my: please teach my software engineering while all i do is code monkeying PR.

 17:55 `<meena>` don't tell no one tho, or else theyâ€¦ might not.

 17:58 `<Odd_Bloke>` blackboxsw: Could you comment on the PR where we're having that feature flag conversation, please?

 17:58 `<blackboxsw>` Heh, generally the direction meena is going is toward distro-specific networking subclass to handle network rendering details (as most of our network rendering utility functions are highly distro-dependent

 17:59 `<blackboxsw>` Odd_Bloke: yes, I shall.

 17:59 `<Odd_Bloke>` Thanks!

 18:06 `<blackboxsw>` Ok, I forgot to close out the meeting.

 18:07 `<blackboxsw>` AnhVoMSFT: so I see your instance is properly "waiting" for the presence of ephemeral0  resource disk. trying to get to the bottom of why formatting isn't being addressed there.

 18:10 `<blackboxsw>` I see 2020-05-19 17:20:24,072 - cc_mounts.py[DEBUG]: Mapped metadata name ephemeral0 to /dev/disk/cloud/azure_resource

 18:10 `<blackboxsw>` 2020-05-19 17:20:24,073 - cc_mounts.py[DEBUG]: changed default device ephemeral0 =>` /dev/disk/cloud/azure_resource-part1

 18:16 `<AnhVoMSFT>` @blackboxsw this is reproducing 100% of the time

 18:17 `<blackboxsw>` I'm wondering AnhVoMSFT if the ephemeral0 alias needs to be used instead. something like [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/7wmMc8drZ3/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/7wmMc8drZ3/)

 18:19 `<blackboxsw>` I see we've done SRU testing referencing that alias instead of full resource disk path [https://github.com/cloud-init/ubuntu-sru/blob/master/bugs/b59870ca.txt](https://github.com/cloud-init/ubuntu-sru/blob/master/bugs/b59870ca.txt)

 18:23 `<AnhVoMSFT>` @blackboxsw, my config is actually having an EXTRA datadisk

 18:23 `<AnhVoMSFT>` so in this case the VM is deployed with an additional data disk attached to the VM

 18:24 `<blackboxsw>` \#endmeeting



Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 ([http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology](http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology))